[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory with our
special guest, John Desouza.
John, of course, is a special
FBI agent, retired now,
who has dealt with terrorism
and violent crimes.
He has turned that entire
career into investigating
UFOs and special cases.
John, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
>>JOHN DESOUZA:
Thank you, George.
It's great to be here with you.
>>NOORY: How have you
made that transition
from being an FBI special
agent into investigating
UFOs and abduction cases?
>>DESOUZA: Well, George, I
didn't come to the paranormal
while I was in the FBI
for the first time.
I had paranormal
experiences long
before I became an FBI agent.
It's actually what
awoke in me the desire
to become an
investigator-- well,
that I had to become
an investigator
and ultimately led me to
be an FBI special agent.
>>NOORY: When your left
the FBI and then started
concentrating on UFOs
and cases like that,
did your friends and peers
go, John, what are you doing?
>>DESOUZA: Well,
some of them did.
Sure.
Some of them did--
sometimes ridiculed in public
but consulted in private.
So there were FBI agents
who just didn't understand
what I was doing or who actually
did make fun of me at times.
But during private
moments, they would
ask me their most burning
paranormal questions
and desires.
And they wanted to know.
>>NOORY: Are you the
real-life "X-Files" guy?
>>DESOUZA: I feel like I am.
During the '90s, I had a great
affinity for the show "The
X-Files"--
>>NOORY: Yes, with
Chris Carter--
>>DESOUZA: With Chris Carter.
And there was a
minor scandal that
went on as some of
the bosses at the FBI
noticed that some
of the plots that
were being used in that show
appeared kind of familiar
to them--
>>NOORY: Aha--
>>DESOUZA: Appeared very
close to some of the cases
that I worked, I believe.
And they ultimately questioned
Chris Carter about that.
And they asked him.
And I was also questioned.
I was asked if I was giving
Chris Carter any information.
>>NOORY: Were you?
>>DESOUZA: No, I was not.
And I was able to tell
them that I wasn't.
And however, Chris Carter
said to them, well,
if you tell me specifically
what cases you're talking about,
we can check and
see what's going on.
And that's when they kind of--
>>NOORY: They probably
gave him more information
than he even had.
>>DESOUZA: Well, that's
why they stopped.
That's why they stopped.
>>NOORY: They were feeding
him, and he didn't even--
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
They stopped asking, and
they told him, it's fine.
And I was told, it's fine.
You can just go ahead
with what you're doing.
And Chris Carter said he felt
like they could shut him down.
And I don't see how they would
have the power to do that,
but he did feel
threatened at that time.
And ultimately, they
kind of called it a tie,
and we went to our own corners.
But my bosses, as a
result of that experience,
did tell me that I had been
demoted from G-man to X-man.
>>NOORY: Because of that?
>>DESOUZA: Because
of "The X-Files."
>>NOORY: Not fair.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Were you upset?
>>DESOUZA: It was
not a compliment,
and I was not happy about it.
But it was something I
got used to, ultimately.
>>NOORY: Now with that
kind of experience,
as you look at the UFO
field and what's happening,
what can you say that
really might be occurring?
>>DESOUZA: What I see occurring
from my standpoint, based
on the cases that
I've reviewed, cases
I've studied, the
people I've interviewed,
the contactees,
abductees, people just
that even have observation
experiences, what I see
is that ufology hasn't really
moved very much in the last 60
years or so since Roswell.
There hasn't been very
much forward progress.
They're still in the
process of, are UFOs real?
Are they real?
Are alien visitors real?
And we really are at
the point to where
we need to move past that.
They are real.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>DESOUZA: They are
visiting humanity.
UFOs are supernatural.
They are visiting people
and alien visitors--
>>NOORY: And taking people--
>>DESOUZA: And taking people.
>>NOORY: 30,000 people in the
United States alone every year
merely disappear--
>>DESOUZA: Disappear--
>>NOORY: Vanish.
>>DESOUZA: Yes, no
bodies, no suspects, no--
these are not murderers.
These are just
disappeared people.
>>NOORY: Men, women, children?
>>DESOUZA: All kinds, yes--
30,000.
And now just that's 30,000
per year average in the United
States.
Now, other industrialized
major countries
have similar numbers, too.
So you're talking
about Brazil, Mexico--
>>NOORY: So hundreds
of thousands of people
vanish off this planet, and
they don't know where they are.
>>DESOUZA: And not many
questions are asked.
>>NOORY: So some of these
cases I'm sure could be tragic,
murders, kidnappings,
but not 30,000 of them.
>>DESOUZA: No, I
don't believe so.
And it really gets
to the point where
the only explanation
possible has
to be going towards a
supernatural explanation
because a physical
explanation isn't there.
>>NOORY: David
Paulides has written
a book called "Missing 411."
His theory is that people
are disappearing in our parks
systems, for example.
That's what he specializes in.
And he has told me
that people will
be walking with their friends,
just walking in the park.
And they'll turn around, and one
is gone, just gone, vanished--
no sound.
No animal came down and swooped
down and picked them up.
You would have heard that--
just gone.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah-- in seconds.
During my time in
the FBI, we've had
cases where you
have a child that
will be with the
parents in a forest area
and will just run
behind a tree--
run behind a tree.
And suddenly, the noise stops.
And--
>>NOORY: They'll go back, look
for the kid, and he's gone.
>>DESOUZA: And
there's nothing there.
That's the example of
things for which there's
no physical explanation,
especially when you
have dogs tracking that child.
And they will just sit.
They'll sit because
there's nowhere to follow.
There's no scent--
>>NOORY: My god--
>>DESOUZA: No physical
explanation for that.
>>NOORY: Are they
beamed aboard a craft?
Where are they?
>>DESOUZA: It appears something
supernatural is happening.
That's all I can--
>>NOORY: That's all you know.
>>DESOUZA: That's
all I know for sure
because the physical
explanation isn't there.
>>NOORY: Could they be stumbling
into another dimension?
>>DESOUZA: I believe so.
>>NOORY: Or something like that?
>>DESOUZA: I believe that's
one of the possibilities that
has to be considered.
>>NOORY: One of our defense
firms, Lockheed Martin,
of course, that has done
just an incredible job for us
as a nation developing high
technology, planes and missiles
and things like that, there
was somebody part of Lockheed
Martin who talked about UFOs.
You knew the person, right?
>>DESOUZA: Yes, Boyd Bushman.
Yes.
He was a great senior
scientist for that company.
And in 2008, I had been
doing various background
investigations concerning
Lockheed Martin and others
because he's worked at many
contractors, not just that one.
But he actually reached out
to me on a personal level.
He reached out to me
because he heard about me,
and he heard about
a conversation
I had with one of his
coworkers about UFOs.
So he reached out
to me and told me
he wanted to talk to
me about challenges he
had on his security clearances.
>>NOORY: All right.
And talk he did.
>>BOYD BUSHMAN: Since
I am a scientist,
I do not believe in theory.
I basically say, follow
the data theory began.
If something can't
verify by a physical test
that something is
true, then I do not
care to accept it in
math that I present.
But a very dear friend of mine
took his wife up a mountain
on Valentine's Day, and they
took a photograph of Tucson.
It turned out to be when
they developed the film,
there were a total of five
UFOs across Tucson proper.
And this is Tucson
as they saw it.
Can you get that?
So here's the picture
of Tucson, as he had it.
Then as he developed
further, notice
that there are five
very distinct UFOs
along the top of the mountain.
>>NOORY: So what did you
think of Boyd Bushman?
>>DESOUZA: I thought Boyd
was an excellent scientist.
He was very responsible.
He was considered by his
coworkers, by his workers,
by everybody that knew him,
to be an excellent scientist.
Follow the data.
That's what he
always used to say.
>>NOORY: Was he a whistleblower?
>>DESOUZA: Well,
when I spoke to him,
he didn't talk
about his challenges
to his security clearance.
He started telling
me about Roswell,
that there was an underground
base at Roswell, Nevada.
And he told me--
>>NOORY: New Mexico.
>>DESOUZA: Yes.
Sorry.
And he told me that he was in
constant contact with people
there and that he had
actually worked on technology,
alien technology, that was
coming out of there, that was
being processed out of there.
And he was constantly
working on these materials.
And he told me that he
was interested in bringing
some of this technology
to the world.
He had filed a number
of patents based
on anti-gravity
and other things.
And he really wanted
to force the government
to expose some of
this technology
so that people, regular
people, could benefit from it.
>>NOORY: Fat chance of
that happening, right?
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
Well, that's what
he was working on.
I believe he was working on that
when he died, unfortunately.
>>NOORY: Did you
believe his story?
>>DESOUZA: I found him to
be completely credible,
forthright, and
very stable and--
>>NOORY: But did you
believe his story?
>>DESOUZA: I did.
>>NOORY: You did?
>>DESOUZA: I really did.
I did believe him, and
I know that he believed
what he was telling me
about the base at Roswell,
about alien technology
being there,
and about aliens themselves
being present at the base.
>>NOORY: Why would he make
this up, John, if he did?
Why?
What does he gain?
>>DESOUZA: I just don't
believe he would, especially he
was in poor health
during this time.
>>NOORY: Poor health--
wasn't obviously wealthy.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
Yeah, and he's not
someone who I believe
would defect from
his belief in science
and the importance of science.
I just don't believe
that he would do that.
>>NOORY: So you think
he's the real deal.
>>DESOUZA: I really do.
I believe in what he's saying.
>>NOORY: How many Boyd
Bushmans are out there
trying to tell their story
and people just won't listen?
>>DESOUZA: Yeah, there
are a few out there.
There are a few out there.
Lazar was one of them--
Boyd Bushman.
But yeah, they need our help to
bring out some of the materials
that they have for us, the
same way Bushman finally
had to expose the stuff himself
in his own farewell video
that he did.
>>NOORY: He kept this
quiet for a while.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
He really did.
But the stuff that he
ultimately exposed I think
was very important, very
important to those of us
with open minds to actually
look at his material.
When I spoke to him, he
showed me a lot of pictures.
And he didn't ultimately show
me the famous alien picture
that he shows in his
final farewell interview,
but he showed me
a lot of pictures.
And some of these pictures
were of alien devices,
of alien technology.
And it was hard for me to really
make heads or tails of it,
especially because
I'm not a scientist.
I'm not a scientific thinker.
So a lot of what he said
to me, I couldn't follow.
But what I could follow is this.
He says that the
government has technology
that could give the people
anti-gravity and free energy.
>>NOORY: That's not
going to happen, is it?
They're not going
to give us that.
>>DESOUZA: Well, it
doesn't look like it.
It doesn't look like
it, unfortunately.
>>NOORY: And so with his
death, did secrets go with him?
>>DESOUZA: I believe they did.
I believe they did.
He has his patents
that were filed,
but I never heard anything more
about his material or anything
being done with it.
So a lot of times,
there are people who
work on these black projects.
Their stuff gets scooped up,
scooped up and disappeared down
a black hole.
>>NOORY: What are
extradimensionals, John?
>>DESOUZA: Extradimensionals
are basically alien visitors who
are visiting humanity,
who are visiting people--
>>NOORY: Ongoing?
>>DESOUZA: Ongoing, but
who are not physical.
They are not physical.
They are not like human beings
the way that we've been taught.
They are simply not physical.
They are from other
universes, other dimensions--
>>NOORY: Not other
planetary systems.
>>DESOUZA: Exactly.
They're not from the
next solar system.
They're not from
the next galaxy.
>>NOORY: And we'd like
that to be, most of us,
but extradimensionals, that
brings an interesting concept
to the table, too.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
And sometimes, it's unwelcome
because extradimensionality
is as a bad penny
that keeps coming back
to ufology about every 20 years
because people want to believe
alien visitors are physical.
They want to believe
in alien immanency.
>>NOORY: We want to
believe we're not alone
in the universe.
>>DESOUZA: Yes, exactly,
that our star system,
our galaxy, that there
are others out there.
And the thing is, there
We aren't alone.
But they're in other
levels of reality.
And they can change
their vibration
physically to our vibration
temporarily to be here with us.
But then they go back
to where they came from.
>>NOORY: All right.
And you were a former
FBI special agent.
You're used to investigating,
interrogating--
probing.
How do you look at all of
this as an investigator?
>>DESOUZA: As an investigator,
I don't do what scientists do.
I don't just follow data
until the data runs out.
What I do is I follow
clues, and those clues
can lead me sometimes to
very unexpected places
and sometimes to places that
are sometimes not physical.
>>NOORY: Dark places?
>>DESOUZA: They
can be dark places.
They can be paranormal places.
And you have to
follow those clues.
And what I learned from
Boyd Bushman actually
fit the patterns of stories I
had been told many, many years
earlier by a KGB officer--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>DESOUZA: By a KGB
officer who had told me
about an underground lab
outside of Moscow that
fit the same parameters
and all the same details
that Boyd Bushman later told me.
>>NOORY: That's fascinating.
>>DESOUZA: So when
you see clues like
that that match each
other, even across decades,
that's when you have to
actually see those patterns
and connect those patterns.
>>NOORY: John, why the shroud
of secrecy by government
about these things?
>>DESOUZA: Because they must.
There is some sort of
worldwide order that is out.
And I don't have to
have been at the meeting
to know this is true
because I see its effects.
There's some kind of an order
that is out to all the nations.
Since 1947, since Roswell--
>>NOORY: Since Roswell--
>>DESOUZA: There is some
kind of an order that
says to all the
nations, basically,
and to their subunits
that you shall not
allow anything real to be
revealed about alien visitors
or about UFOs.
And the reason that I
know that's the case
is because when
you have something
like what happened in
1980 at Rendlesham Forest,
where you have two nations--
you have the United States
military base on British soil.
And you have this military
base invaded by several UFOs
across three days
and three nights.
And the British government and
the American government, they
don't have to wait for
orders for the cover-up.
The cover-up is immediate.
It springs right into action.
This is a standing order
that the nations have.
And if everybody wants to
know what I'm talking about,
just google "NASA
cuts the live feed."
They don't have to
wait for instructions.
They don't have to.
That's a standing order.
Same thing-- European
Space Agency,
also cuts the live
feed and various others
around the world.
>>NOORY: What was the Dog
Walkers' Rebellion in the '80s?
>>DESOUZA: The Dog Walkers'
Rebellion in the '80s
was in the Soviet Union, they
had the complete "Pravda"
system of news.
Every night at 6
o'clock in the evening,
you had people refuse to
watch the 6 o'clock news.
Hundreds of millions of
people across three time
zones throughout
the Soviet Union,
they refused to watch
the evening news anymore
at 6 o'clock.
>>NOORY: Why?
>>DESOUZA: Because it was all
government-controlled "Pravda."
>>NOORY: Really?
They fought back, huh?
>>DESOUZA: So they
simply withdrew.
They simply withdrew.
And at 6 o'clock every evening
all across the Soviet Union,
people, instead of
sitting down for dinner
to watch the evening news, they
all went and walked their dogs.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>DESOUZA: And they
started noticing each other
out there walking their dogs.
And they started to find that
they could congregate and share
news from the West while
walking their dogs.
The KGB wouldn't
bother them because it
was an ordinary activity.
They could congregate
without being harassed.
And so they started doing that.
At 6 o'clock, they
started sharing
because even a
rumor from the West
was more likely to be true
than the "Pravda" news
that they were exposed to.
And eventually, what happened
was towards the '80s,
towards the end, they found
out that the only people
watching "Pravda" news and
buying "Pravda" newspapers
were government officials
towards the end.
>>NOORY: There you go.
>>DESOUZA: So the Dog Walkers'
Rebellion was very successful.
And we need to repeat that
today because today, we're,
again, in this sort
of Orwellian system
of 100% corporate fake news.
>>NOORY: What is data flooding?
>>DESOUZA: Data flooding--
>>NOORY: What does that
have to do with this?
>>DESOUZA: Data flooding
is better for tyranny
than secrecy ever was.
Secrecy can no longer
be used to hide things
from people because of
the interconnectedness
of the world and the
internet, how it functions.
Data flooding is the new
method that the nations
use to cover information.
They allow information
to be in plain sight,
but then they cover
it with other layers
of false information,
false news, false versions
of the same story.
So the truth is out there,
like Mulder used to say.
>>NOORY: It's there.
Sure.
>>DESOUZA: It's out there.
>>NOORY: You got to find it.
>>DESOUZA: It could be on
the internet, but so what?
Because of data
flooding, it's populated
by so many false versions of--
>>NOORY: Is it
like fake news now?
>>DESOUZA: Fake news is
just a small part, yeah--
>>NOORY: All right--
>>DESOUZA: Because
all corporate news
is fake news at this point.
>>NOORY: And what
are the global shops?
What is that?
>>DESOUZA: Global shops are
another part of data flooding.
Global shops are these
operational units
that are sponsored and put
forward by global authorities,
by the EPIC, the Elite
Powers In Control.
>>NOORY: Set up on purpose--
>>DESOUZA: On purpose.
And what they do is they
take down any real instances
that reveal the paranormal.
They take them down, and they
replace them and substitute
them with data flooding,
with false versions
of that same event.
>>NOORY: I want to show
you, John, something
from the Dome of the
Rock in Jerusalem.
And then, of course, we will
get involved with your comments
on that.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
>>WOMAN 1: We say "invalids."
>>WOMAN 2: Because
you're in therapy.
You're in therapy.
I'd say that, too.
>>WOMAN 1: Yeah.
[INAUDIBLE]
Yeah.
I think [INAUDIBLE]
would be lovely, but--
>>WOMAN 3: Is that a UFO?
>>WOMAN 1: It's amazing.
>>WOMAN 2: Holy [BLEEP].
>>WOMAN 3: Oh, is that cool?
You can almost
hardly look at it.
>>WOMAN 2: We've seen them
in Mississippi like this,
but never like--
never like that.
>>MAN 1: Oh my god.
[SPEAKING HEBREW]
[GASPING]
>>NOORY: John, what
the heck was that?
>>DESOUZA: That was a
true, real UFO event.
It was genuinely
extraterrestrial,
possibly extradimensional.
>>NOORY: It hovered
over the Dome,
took off like a rocket ship--
people witnessed this.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
And when that happened-- this
happened in Jerusalem on 2011,
January 29.
It was about 1:00 in the morning
in Jerusalem when it happened.
>>NOORY: It went all over
the country after that.
>>DESOUZA: It was captured
by numerous tourists
and other people.
And another way that you know
it was a genuine occurrence was
there were weather
cameras in Israel
at the time that
captured the event.
>>NOORY: Everything captured it.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
And also, I was working with an
intelligence squad on the East
Coast when this occurred.
I was with a gentleman who
had people on the ground
in Jerusalem working on
some other operations
unrelated to this.
But that was put by the wayside
because they called him up
from Jerusalem
shortly after 1:00
in the morning
when this happened,
and they told him
that they're here.
>>NOORY: Why hasn't this
story gotten the kind of press
it needs to get worldwide?
>>DESOUZA: Ah.
It's because of
these global shops.
These global shops, as
I was told would happen,
they immediately sprang
into action as soon
as this happened.
>>NOORY: Oh my god,
damage control, right?
>>DESOUZA: Yes.
And what they did
was they took down
some of the originals, which
have been put back up by now.
But they took down
the original videos
and they put out faked
CGI versions of this video
so that when--
>>NOORY: To what,
manipulate people?
>>DESOUZA: So that when
there was a mad rush--
>>NOORY: Mislead them?
>>DESOUZA: Yeah, so that
when there was a mad rush
of millions of people to
see "Dome of the Rock UFO,"
they would be confronted
with this fake CGI version--
>>NOORY: All right--
>>DESOUZA: That had
breadcrumbs of CGI in it.
>>NOORY: What we just
saw is the original.
>>DESOUZA: That's
one of the real ones.
Yes.
But there are dozens
and dozens of versions
on the net of this incident,
and a lot of them are fake.
>>NOORY: Ah.
>>DESOUZA: That's the problem.
>>NOORY: Was this an
orb or a physical craft,
in your opinion?
>>DESOUZA: I believe it was a
plasma vehicle, a UFO, a plasma
craft.
>>NOORY: And then
it just took off.
>>DESOUZA: Which means
physical but not physical
because plasma is
shifting state.
It's a shifting state of matter.
And so yeah.
So the answer to that is--
>>NOORY: Interesting
that it would happen over
such a religious site.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
Yeah, interesting
because obviously, they
wanted to capture attention.
They were trying to
get our attention,
get it by doing something very
significant, very important.
And also, I just think that if
any human powers were involved
with this, they wouldn't have
picked the Dome of the Rock
to use as their site.
I just don't think so.
>>NOORY: That was an
interesting location.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Back to disclosure
for a moment, John--
why doesn't government
come out and say,
folks you saw this video.
It's real.
We don't know what these are.
We don't know where
they're coming, even
though we think we do know.
Why don't they say this?
Why do they have to
hide and not disclose?
>>DESOUZA: Because
government follows orders.
Basically, that's their
nature, that's what they do,
and that's what they're
always going to do.
And they have been ordered--
not just our government
but all the governments
have been ordered never to
allow anything real about UFOs
or alien visitors
to be disclosed.
>>NOORY: What are
they afraid of?
>>DESOUZA: I believe
the reason for that
is because the alien
visitors themselves
want to be the ones to give
revelation when the time comes.
They don't want any
interpretations.
They don't want any middlemen.
They don't want anyone else to
advise who and what they are.
>>NOORY: Something has
been going on at the South
Pole, Antarctica.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Have you
investigated that?
>>DESOUZA: I've looked into it,
and I have gotten information
on what's going on.
And it's--
>>NOORY: What's happening?
>>DESOUZA: It's
pretty amazing stuff.
It appears that many government
and religious leaders have been
summoned to Antarctica
in recent...
24 months or so.
And it's amazing
because they're being
summoned by someone or something
that we don't know what it is.
And it appears
that there has been
a discovery of some sort
of underground civilization
that leads directly into
hollow Earth theories.
>>NOORY: Well, which also
talks about Admiral Richard
Byrd and his journey
into the hollow Earth.
>>MAN 2: Thumbs up
to this gentleman.
Secretary has approved
our plans in pairing you,
Admiral Byrd, as the officer
in charge of the expedition
and you, Admiral Cruzen, as
the task force commander.
And we get everything we need.
That makes Operation Highjump
the greatest expedition
in history.
>>RICHARD BYRD:
Admiral, time is going
to be our greatest handicap.
By the time we get through
this very difficult icepack,
the summer will have ended
and the fall will have set in.
Never before has
anyone attempted
to take a fleet of
thin-skinned steel ships
through 300 miles or
more of crushing icepack.
>>MAN 2: I have great faith
in your skill, courage,
and determination.
>>NOORY: Well, just a
little snippet of Admiral
Byrd-- it's one of the first
times I've seen him like that.
What an investigation.
He discovered something very
strange with the hollow Earth.
>>DESOUZA: He did.
And he was never
allowed to directly talk
about what happened to him
during Operation Highjump.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>DESOUZA: But he was
given a flotilla of Naval
ships to go and
invade Antarctica
because as a direct
confrontation against the Nazis
that supposedly had a base
there, Neuschwabenland.
>>NOORY: Because the North
Pole episode that he was on
was done through the
North Pole, right?
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: When he went into
the hollow Earth there--
so then all of a sudden, he
got reassigned to do something
at the South Pole.
>>DESOUZA: Right.
>>NOORY: And that's where he
saw these other anomalies.
>>DESOUZA: Right.
And based on clues--
because he gave
little interviews
with little snippets of
things that were on his mind
after the operation.
And based on clues and
things we can put together,
it appears that his
flotilla to the Antarctica
was attacked by UFOs--
>>NOORY: Wow--
>>DESOUZA: And basically
just taken apart.
>>NOORY: Destroyed?
>>DESOUZA: Partially,
partially destroyed--
we'll never know
how many lives were
lost, how many ships were lost.
That's all--
>>NOORY: Did he report that?
>>DESOUZA: No.
>>NOORY: Not publicly.
>>DESOUZA: No, none of
this was reported publicly.
But he gave little snippets
of interviews talking
about different aspects about
UFOs and other experiences
that we can put together a
picture of what happened.
And it does appear that
his flotilla was basically
partially destroyed--
>>NOORY: Jeez--
>>DESOUZA: By UFOs
that had capacities
that were astounding to him.
And basically, his operation
was canceled because of that.
>>NOORY: As a former
special FBI agent,
what does this all tell
you about what's happening
and the shroud of secrecy?
>>DESOUZA: It tells me
that we're in a good place
because secrecy, it just doesn't
function anymore as a system
to keep things from us.
It really doesn't.
We're at a point now where
the interconnectedness
of the world, the
internet, the fact
that we're all up on the
internet at all times--
Antarctica's a perfect example.
If you go to independent media--
>>NOORY: You can't find it.
>>DESOUZA: Not
mainstream media--
>>NOORY: You can't find it.
>>DESOUZA: But
independent media--
>>NOORY: Independent media, but
mainstream, you can't find it.
>>DESOUZA: Right.
Oh, yeah.
But in independent media,
you can find information
about what's going on.
>>NOORY: But how do you
put it all together, John?
How do you know what's
right and what isn't, what
is a far-fetched story
and what might be reality?
How do you hone in on that?
>>DESOUZA: You just have to
stay away from mainstream media.
That's the best advice
I can give anybody.
Just don't accept.
Don't participate in it.
Don't look at it.
Make sure you go to
independent sources,
and that's where
you're most to get it.
>>NOORY: See, what I'm told
is going on at Antarctica is
they're investigating the
possibilities of a huge craft
that is under the ice, a
city that was covered by ice
that's down there--
that's exciting all by itself.
>>DESOUZA: Yes.
>>NOORY: No reason to hide that.
>>NOORY: But something's
happening down there,
a former Nazi base--
submarine base.
>>DESOUZA: And all of
those possibilities
will be proposed and used as
cover stories in the months
to come.
>>NOORY: And how do we know
which is believable and which
isn't?
>>DESOUZA: They're
all cover stories
because what's really happening
there, what's really going on,
is there is alien technology.
That is the reason
why the nations
in just a couple of years
have gone from five nations
being there to 32
nations now being there.
>>NOORY: Including visits
by governmental officials,
as well.
>>DESOUZA: Yes, and
that's because they're
all jockeying for the division
of this alien technology.
So whatever's going
on there, it has
to do with an
alien civilization.
But we're probably not going
to be allowed to know that.
>>NOORY: What is EPIC?
>>DESOUZA: EPIC is the name that
I use for the Elite Powers In
Control, the acronym EPIC--
>>NOORY: Ah, OK--
>>DESOUZA: Because I
don't like to say--
>>NOORY: You coined that phrase?
>>DESOUZA: Yes, I have
because we need fresh language
in the paranormal.
I don't like to use the word
"Illuminati," "NWO," things
like that, because we need to
use different language to refer
to these things.
Otherwise, we're just
painting targets on ourselves.
>>NOORY: This is
exciting research.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Will we ever
get these answers?
>>DESOUZA: We will.
And I think we'll get
some of these answers
sooner than we think
because of the work that's
being done here at Gaia
and other places like this.
>>NOORY: Well, this
expedition in Antarctica
is amazing all by itself.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: As people
continue to investigate it,
maybe we'll get these answers.
>>DESOUZA: I think we will.
But we have to just put
together the right people
to be able to go
forward with this stuff
and show the way to
go forward in truth.
>>NOORY: Do we have
the right people?
>>DESOUZA: Well, sometimes, I
feel like scientists are not
the ones that you really need to
move forward in the paranormal
with because, like
Boyd Bushman told me,
they just follow the data.
They follow the data.
So when the data runs
out, basically, they're--
>>NOORY: It runs out.
>>DESOUZA: Everything runs out.
Now, investigators,
though, are different,
investigators like the great
Jim Marrs who just passed away
and one of the greatest
investigative journalists who
ever lived.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>DESOUZA: Or law enforcement
people, we follow clues.
We don't follow data.
We follow clues.
We follow patterns.
We look for modus operandi.
And when the data-- and
our data doesn't run out
because we are able
to go out, reach out
to cases and comparative
anecdotes and things
that happen sometimes
across decades or centuries,
and we're able to match things
that may originally not have
been matchable to these things.
>>NOORY: Jim Marrs would have
loved the research that you do,
John.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: He would have loved it.
>>NOORY: He's sorely missed.
So as you look at the
perspective of all these things
that have been going on, what
can you conclude at this point?
>>DESOUZA: At this
point, I think
we're reaching a crescendo.
We're reaching a crescendo.
Alien abductions are increasing.
They're not leveling off.
Observation cases, contact
cases, they're just increasing.
Cases like Antarctica,
where anybody
can go on Google
Satellite and see
what's really going on there--
they can see these
pyramids that came up
out of nowhere that are the
size of the Pyramids of Giza.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>DESOUZA: They can see these
stairways, these stairways that
are popping up out
of Antarctica that
are as big as the stairs
on the Capitol steps,
these entrances at Antarctica
that anyone could look at.
So what I'm saying is we're
approaching a point where
this stuff can't be
contained anymore,
even from the mainstream, even
from the majority of people.
And they're going to have to
start looking at this stuff
and really seeing that
we're approaching revelation
at this point
>>NOORY: Well, I'm so fortunate
that programs like ours,
"Beyond Belief," that Gaia
is giving us the opportunity
to get these kinds
of stories out
to people who might not ever
have had the opportunity
to know what's going on.
>>DESOUZA: Exactly.
>>NOORY: And we
will keep pushing
and pushing and pushing.
In terms of the FBI,
your former employer,
what's going to happen there?
Any more developments?
Any revelations
that will pop out?
>>DESOUZA: Well,
the FBI is always
going to do what they
do, which is they do
their criminal investigations.
They do their terrorism
investigations
up to their point, to the
point of their investigative
conclusions.
And they're just
going to stay there.
But if you want to see some
of the extraordinary stuff
that the FBI has done,
you can go directly
to vault.fbi.gov, where they
have the repository of all
the cases that have been
declassified that people can
look at for themselves
and they can download
for themselves for free.
And there is a section that's
called "Unexplained Mysteries."
and under that, there
is "UFOs" and there's
"Cattle Mutilations."
And there are all kinds
of paranormal-type topics.
And people can
see what the FBI's
done over the last 100 years.
>>NOORY: Are "The X-Files" real?
>>DESOUZA: I believe they are.
I believe they are because
I've seen them myself.
>>NOORY: What are some of the
extraterrestrial UFO-type cases
you've investigated that really
could be considered authentic?
>>DESOUZA: Well,
what I've noticed
is that from the time of
World War II, thereabouts,
there have been
several authentic UFO
cases that carry some
similar traits that I
consider extradimensional.
And one of them is,
during World War II,
the Battle of Los Angeles--
>>NOORY: Oh, yes--
>>DESOUZA: Where we
had the whole coast--
>>NOORY: There was
something up there.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
We had the whole
coast militarized.
And sure enough, as everyone's
paranoid about Japanese zeros
coming into California,
we have those two UFOs
that show up over Los Angeles.
>>NOORY: Hovering--
>>DESOUZA: Hovering--
>>NOORY: Pinging when
they shot at it--
>>DESOUZA: Yeah,
hovering over there.
And they just let loose all
kinds of ordnance against it.
And it's just no harm
was done to the UFOs.
>>NOORY: No, they
couldn't knock it out or--
>>DESOUZA: They couldn't,
as if they were actually
plasma vehicles, shifting
states of matter.
>>NOORY: The real deal?
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
And I see an extradimensional
quality there
to those ships that
happily just sailed away
after several people
were killed on the ground
from these ordnance.
But the UFOs were
left untouched.
Betty and Barney Hill--
>>NOORY: Great case--
>>DESOUZA: 1961, I see that as--
>>NOORY: New
Hampshire abduction.
>>DESOUZA: Exactly.
I see that as a genuine,
authentic situation.
And if anybody wants
to know what I mean,
just look at the
interviews of Betty
and Barney Hill that are
still available today.
They're in black and white,
but they're available today.
People can see them.
You can see the pain
in their voices.
Not people looking for fame, not
people looking for notoriety--
they were genuine in
what they went through.
They were real.
1975, Travis Walton case--
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah.
Passed a lie detector test--
>>DESOUZA: Oh, yeah, and so did
many of his comrades, as well.
And that was something where he
was in the Sitgreaves National
Forest in Arizona.
And he ran underneath that UFO--
>>NOORY: Got beamed aboard.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
It was like a
plasma vehicle and--
>>NOORY: Took him right up--
>>DESOUZA: Taken aboard.
>>NOORY: Do you
believe these abduction
cases are the real deal?
>>DESOUZA: Absolutely,
except turns out today--
and Travis Walton
agrees with this,
that his was not an
abduction case at all.
It was a rescue
operation, apparently.
He had been struck dead on the
ground by this bolt of energy.
And they actually--
>>NOORY: His buddies
thought he was dead.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah, exactly.
Everyone believed he was dead.
But they actually brought him
aboard in order to revive him.
>>NOORY: What about these
animal mutilation cases?
What's going on there?
>>DESOUZA: Animal
mutilations, I believe
they are very much similar to
alien abductions, in that they
are not really mutilations, just
like alien abductions aren't
really primarily abductions.
They're harvestings,
harvestings of animal tissue,
just like human abductions.
>>NOORY: And they're using
the tissue for some reason.
>>DESOUZA: Oh, yeah.
They're saving it in the bank.
They've got banks that they
are saving all this tissue.
>>NOORY: Why don't they
just take the animal?
>>DESOUZA: Ah, because they
don't need the whole animal.
They just need these
portions of soft tissue
that somehow, through
their technology,
they're able to work
with these tissue
very well to get
everything they want.
>>NOORY: Have you ever come
across your own personal UFO
case?
>>DESOUZA: Well, I had my UFO
experience when I was a kid.
I was about 10 years
old, and my parents
took me to New York City,
some sort of a party.
I was by myself out at night
in a part of New York City
between two tall buildings.
And I looked up, and
it was a starry night.
But there was one area between
these two tall buildings
that was black cloud.
And I was trying to
look at this cloud,
and suddenly, there
are spotlights
coming out the bottom.
>>NOORY: Always in a cloud--
they're always in a cloud.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah.
And it came out the
bottom, the spotlights,
and it was a flying saucer
that came towards me.
And I felt that beam of
light, that bluish-greenish--
I've talked to many witnesses
that felt that spotlight.
And it feels like
it's scanning you,
like it's scanning every
fiber of your being.
>>NOORY: You never
forgot that story.
>>DESOUZA: Oh, yeah.
And I just felt that scan.
And me and the UFO changed
our minds at the same moment.
I stepped back, and the thing
reversed course and went
back up into the clouds.
>>NOORY: Have you had any
episodes like that since?
>>DESOUZA: I had an
experience at my home weeks
after that, almost as if
they got my information,
took it back, and then
decided to visit me at home.
And I did have an
experience where
I had a couple of entities that
came to my home late at night.
And apparently, I felt hands
at my feet and my head.
They're lifting me up, and
they were lifting me up
and I saw the ceiling
coming closer to me.
Again, I was about 10 years old.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>DESOUZA: And I saw the ceiling
coming closer and closer,
and they were apparently passing
through the ceiling easily.
But my forehead bumped
against the ceiling
and would not go through.
And they seemed very
perplexed by this.
And they kept on
checking, and then I
was able to see my
parents' bedroom, which
was next to mine.
But the door was wide
open, and I saw one of them
on the ground holding my
parents asleep with their hands
over the bed in some
kind of a stasis field.
And the one on the ground
that was closest to me,
I saw him look at me with
those black, wrap-around eyes.
And all I heard were
the words, "he's awake."
And then I looked at
the thing, and that
was like the cord was cut.
And I fell in the bed,
and they were gone.
>>NOORY: Simple as that.
>>DESOUZA: Yeah-- never had
another experience after that.
>>NOORY: If somebody
came to you and said,
look, you're a special
FBI investigator.
You've looked at the paranormal.
You've looked at the unusual.
Do you believe that UFOs exist?
Do you believe that
we're being visited?
What would you say to them?
>>DESOUZA: I would
say, absolutely, I do.
Now, at the same time, you
have to bear in mind probably
about 95% of observation
cases, contact cases,
can be not supernatural,
can be explained
through physical means or
explained through other means.
And just they
aren't supernatural.
But that still leaves
5% of cases every year
that are genuinely unexplainable
and possibly extraterrestrial
in nature or extradimensional.
>>NOORY: I think it
is so great that we
have had special agents
like you interested
in this kind of subject matter.
>>DESOUZA: Well, it's very
important for investigators
to look at this stuff
because nobody else is really
going to be able
to make the leap
to connect these things in the
way that people can understand,
people can see, and
people can really
grasp outside of the men
in the white lab coats.
>>NOORY: There you have it,
a special agent for the FBI--
retired-- John Desouza,
who actually believes
we are being visited
from extraterrestrials
from another
source, whether it's
extradimensional or planetary.
And to me, that is
truly beyond belief.
[THEME MUSIC]